Class1.md, before:

## Class 1: Strings & Random Numbers

### Activity
- Review prerequisite skills and knowledge
- Discuss course focus and project goals
- Show examples of completed projects and similar websites

### Objectives
After completing this class session and the associated tutorial challenges, students will be able to ...
- Create Python scripts and modules
- Access command-line arguments
- Read files and extract lines of text
- Remove whitespace from strings
- Store and access elements in a list
- Generate random integers in a range

### Challenges
Visit Make School's [Online Academy](https://www.makeschool.com/academy) to find the [Tweet Generator tutorial](http://make.sc/oa-tweet-generator).

These challenges are the baseline required to complete the project and course.
Be sure to complete these before next class session and before starting on the stretch challenges below.
- Page 1: Let’s Get Started
    - Python scripts and modules
    - Rearrange words script
- Page 2: Random Dictionary Words
    - Generate random dictionary words
    - Benchmark and optimize for speed

### Stretch Challenges
These challenges are more difficult and help you push your skills and understanding to the next level. They are often found in the "Where to Go From Here" section at the bottom of most tutorial pages, although a few bonus challenges are only included here.
- Page 1: Let’s Get Started
    - Reverse words/sentences
    - Interactive mad libs game
    - Simple anagram generator
- Page 2: Random Dictionary Words
    - Vocabulary study game
    - Autocomplete program
    - Real word anagram generator
- Bonus challenges
    - Write a script that imitates [`cowsay`](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cowsay) – install with `brew install cowsay`
    - Write your own shuffle function or implement the [Fisher–Yates shuffle](https://bost.ocks.org/mike/shuffle/)

### Resources
- Make School's [OOP coding challenge](http://hr.gs/ooptest) – covers classes, inheritance, and polymorphism
- Code School's [Python tutorial](https://www.codeschool.com/courses/try-python) – gentle introduction with strings and conditionals
- HackerRank's [Python challenges](https://www.hackerrank.com/domains/python/py-introduction) – try the basic data types and strings sections
- Interview Cake's [in-place shuffle interview problem](https://www.interviewcake.com/question/python/shuffle) – with helpful detailed hints
- Google's [Python class](https://developers.google.com/edu/python/) – includes lecture videos and lots of practice exercises

Commit message:

Add Tweet Generator project intro slides

Class1.md, after:

## Class 1: Strings & Random Numbers

### Activity
- Review prerequisite skills and knowledge
- Discuss course focus and project goals in [Tweet Generator intro slides](slides/TweetGenerator.pdf)
- Show examples of completed projects and similar websites

### Objectives
After completing this class session and the associated tutorial challenges, students will be able to ...
- Create Python scripts and modules
- Access command-line arguments
- Read files and extract lines of text
- Remove whitespace from strings
- Store and access elements in a list
- Generate random integers in a range

### Challenges
Visit Make School's [Online Academy](https://www.makeschool.com/academy) to find the [Tweet Generator tutorial](http://make.sc/oa-tweet-generator).

These challenges are the baseline required to complete the project and course.
Be sure to complete these before next class session and before starting on the stretch challenges below.
- Page 1: Let’s Get Started
    - Python scripts and modules
    - Rearrange words script
- Page 2: Random Dictionary Words
    - Generate random dictionary words
    - Benchmark and optimize for speed

### Stretch Challenges
These challenges are more difficult and help you push your skills and understanding to the next level. They are often found in the "Where to Go From Here" section at the bottom of most tutorial pages, although a few bonus challenges are only included here.
- Page 1: Let’s Get Started
    - Reverse words/sentences
    - Interactive mad libs game
    - Simple anagram generator
- Page 2: Random Dictionary Words
    - Vocabulary study game
    - Autocomplete program
    - Real word anagram generator
- Bonus challenges
    - Write a script that imitates [`cowsay`](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cowsay) – install with `brew install cowsay`
    - Write your own shuffle function or implement the [Fisher–Yates shuffle](https://bost.ocks.org/mike/shuffle/)

### Resources
- Make School's [OOP coding challenge](http://hr.gs/ooptest) – covers classes, inheritance, and polymorphism
- Code School's [Python tutorial](https://www.codeschool.com/courses/try-python) – gentle introduction with strings and conditionals
- HackerRank's [Python challenges](https://www.hackerrank.com/domains/python/py-introduction) – try the basic data types and strings sections
- Interview Cake's [in-place shuffle interview problem](https://www.interviewcake.com/question/python/shuffle) – with helpful detailed hints
- Google's [Python class](https://developers.google.com/edu/python/) – includes lecture videos and lots of practice exercises
