Class6.md, before:

## Class 6: Generating Sentences

### Activities
- Compare histogram functions to `Dictogram` and `Listogram` class instance methods
- Lecture and discussion on building Markov chains and performing random walks

### Objectives
After completing this class session and the associated tutorial challenges, students will be able to ...
- Build Markov chains based on observed frequency of adjacent words in text
- Generate sentences by sampling words by performing random walks on Markov chain

### Challenges
These challenges are the baseline required to complete the project and course.
Be sure to complete these before next class session and before starting on the stretch challenges below.
- [Page 7: Generating Sentences]
    - Build a Markov chain by analyzing frequency of adjacent words in text
    - Sample a random word from a state histogram in a Markov chain
    - Generate a sentence by performing a random walk on Markov chain

### Stretch Challenges
These challenges are more difficult and help you push your skills and understanding to the next level.
- [Page 7: Generating Sentences]
    - Implement `MarkovChain` class to store states of word frequency histograms
        - Add methods for constructing state histograms and sampling words


[Page 7: Generating Sentences]: https://www.makeschool.com/academy/tutorial/tweet-generator-data-structures-probability-with-python/generating-sentences-with-markov-chains

Commit message:

Add link to William's presentation on how OOP actually works

Class6.md, after:

## Class 6: Generating Sentences

### Activities
- Compare histogram functions to `Dictogram` and `Listogram` class instance methods
- Quick lecture and discussion on [how OOP actually works] under the hood
- Lecture and discussion on building Markov chains and performing random walks

### Objectives
After completing this class session and the associated tutorial challenges, students will be able to ...
- Build Markov chains based on observed frequency of adjacent words in text
- Generate sentences by sampling words by performing random walks on Markov chain

### Challenges
These challenges are the baseline required to complete the project and course.
Be sure to complete these before next class session and before starting on the stretch challenges below.
- [Page 7: Generating Sentences]
    - Build a Markov chain by analyzing frequency of adjacent words in text
    - Sample a random word from a state histogram in a Markov chain
    - Generate a sentence by performing a random walk on Markov chain

### Stretch Challenges
These challenges are more difficult and help you push your skills and understanding to the next level.
- [Page 7: Generating Sentences]
    - Implement `MarkovChain` class to store states of word frequency histograms
        - Add methods for constructing state histograms and sampling words


[how OOP actually works]: https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1A-8gNEH34PibhfYlA-Bn0OodZSbAE-z54XZXuSCDu7Y/edit
[Page 7: Generating Sentences]: https://www.makeschool.com/academy/tutorial/tweet-generator-data-structures-probability-with-python/generating-sentences-with-markov-chains
