Lessons/Architecture.md, before:

# Application Architecture

## Activities
- Review code with partners and use [code review rubric] to assess quality
- Compare code quality of functions based on length and responsibility
- Discuss issues with ripple effects caused by tight [coupling] and ways to avoid it
- Discuss advantages of classes and object-oriented programming (OOP)
- Lecture and discussion on [how OOP actually works] under the hood

## Objectives
After completing this class session and the associated tutorial challenges, students will be able to ...
- Assess aspects of code quality including organization and modularity
- Refactor functions that use structures as class instance methods
- Plan application architecture to prepare for future expansion

## Challenges
These challenges are the baseline required to complete the project and course.
Be sure to complete these before next class session and before starting on the stretch challenges below.
- [Page 6: Application Architecture]
    - Improve code organization and quality based on peer feedback on code review rubric
    - Write down your answers to questions about application architecture to plan improvements
    - Implement `Dictogram` class (histogram as a subclass of `dict` type) using [dictogram starter code]:
        - Implement `add_count(word, count)` - increase the frequency count of `word` in the histogram by `count`
        - Implement `frequency(word)` - return the frequency count of `word` in the histogram, or `0` if not found
        - Implement `sample()` - return a word from the histogram, randomly sampled by weighting each word's probability of being chosen by its observed frequency
        - Add `types` and `tokens` properties that track the number of types (distinct words) and tokens (total word occurrences) in the histogram
        - Run `python dictogram.py` to test `Dictogram` class instance methods on a few small examples plus output of 10,000 calls to `sample()` method and their error from observed word frequencies
        - Run `pytest dictogram_test.py` to run the [dictogram unit tests] and fix any failures
    - Implement `Listogram` class (histogram as a subclass of `list` type) using [listogram starter code]:
        - Implement `add_count(word, count)` - increase the frequency count of `word` in the histogram by `count`
        - Implement `frequency(word)` - return the frequency count of `word` in the histogram, or `0` if not found
        - Implement `__contains__(word)` - return a boolean indicating whether `word` is in the histogram
        - Implement `index_of(word)` - return the index of the entry containing `word` if found in the histogram, or `None` if not found
        - Implement `sample()` - return a word from the histogram, randomly sampled by weighting each word's probability of being chosen by its observed frequency
        - Add `types` and `tokens` properties that track the number of types (distinct words) and tokens (total word occurrences) in the histogram
        - Run `python listogram.py` to test `Listogram` class instance methods on a few small examples plus output of 10,000 calls to `sample()` method and their error from observed word frequencies
        - Run `pytest listogram_test.py` to run the [listogram unit tests] and fix any failures
    - Restructure code files and functions to be more modular and flexible

## Stretch Challenges
These challenges are more difficult and help you push your skills and understanding to the next level.
- [Page 6: Application Architecture]
    - Organize other app functions and classes based on your answers to app architecture questions
- Bonus challenges
    - Improve the speed of accessing word frequencies in the `Listogram` class by storing entries in sorted order by word and searching for them in a faster way
        - An elegant way to do this is to make a `SortedListogram` class that inherits from the `Listogram` class and overrides some instance methods to specialize their behavior to insert and search for entries in sorted order
    - Want to make the `Listogram` class more convenient to use? Add methods so that it can be used as an [iterable container], such as in a `for` loop like this:
        ```
        fish_text = 'one fish two fish red fish blue fish'
        histogram = Listogram(fish_text.split())
        for word in histogram:
            freq = histogram.frequency(word)
            print('{} occurs {} times'.format(word, freq))
        ```


[code review rubric]: http://make.sc/code-review-rubric
[how OOP actually works]: https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1n_BKzZ3Dhn3NoKpv05TlS2M-P0zNJRE2jJvnTxiD5bA/preview
[Page 6: Application Architecture]: https://www.makeschool.com/academy/tutorial/tweet-generator-data-structures-probability-with-python/application-architecture
[coupling]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Coupling_(computer_programming)
[iterable container]: https://docs.python.org/3/library/stdtypes.html#typeiter

[dictogram starter code]: https://github.com/Make-School-Courses/CS-1.2-Intro-Data-Structures/blob/master/Code/dictogram.py
[dictogram unit tests]: https://github.com/Make-School-Courses/CS-1.2-Intro-Data-Structures/blob/master/Code/dictogram_test.py
[listogram starter code]: https://github.com/Make-School-Courses/CS-1.2-Intro-Data-Structures/blob/master/Code/listogram.py
[listogram unit tests]: https://github.com/Make-School-Courses/CS-1.2-Intro-Data-Structures/blob/master/Code/listogram_test.py

Commit message:

Add link to video of lecture on how OOP actually works

Lessons/Architecture.md, after:

# Application Architecture

## Activities
- Review code with partners and use [code review rubric] to assess quality
- Compare code quality of functions based on length and responsibility
- Discuss issues with ripple effects caused by tight [coupling] and ways to avoid it
- Discuss advantages of classes and object-oriented programming (OOP)
- Lecture and discussion on [how OOP actually works] under the hood
    - Watch [video of lecture on how OOP actually works]

## Objectives
After completing this class session and the associated tutorial challenges, students will be able to ...
- Assess aspects of code quality including organization and modularity
- Refactor functions that use structures as class instance methods
- Plan application architecture to prepare for future expansion

## Challenges
These challenges are the baseline required to complete the project and course.
Be sure to complete these before next class session and before starting on the stretch challenges below.
- [Page 6: Application Architecture]
    - Improve code organization and quality based on peer feedback on code review rubric
    - Write down your answers to questions about application architecture to plan improvements
    - Implement `Dictogram` class (histogram as a subclass of `dict` type) using [dictogram starter code]:
        - Implement `add_count(word, count)` - increase the frequency count of `word` in the histogram by `count`
        - Implement `frequency(word)` - return the frequency count of `word` in the histogram, or `0` if not found
        - Implement `sample()` - return a word from the histogram, randomly sampled by weighting each word's probability of being chosen by its observed frequency
        - Add `types` and `tokens` properties that track the number of types (distinct words) and tokens (total word occurrences) in the histogram
        - Run `python dictogram.py` to test `Dictogram` class instance methods on a few small examples plus output of 10,000 calls to `sample()` method and their error from observed word frequencies
        - Run `pytest dictogram_test.py` to run the [dictogram unit tests] and fix any failures
    - Implement `Listogram` class (histogram as a subclass of `list` type) using [listogram starter code]:
        - Implement `add_count(word, count)` - increase the frequency count of `word` in the histogram by `count`
        - Implement `frequency(word)` - return the frequency count of `word` in the histogram, or `0` if not found
        - Implement `__contains__(word)` - return a boolean indicating whether `word` is in the histogram
        - Implement `index_of(word)` - return the index of the entry containing `word` if found in the histogram, or `None` if not found
        - Implement `sample()` - return a word from the histogram, randomly sampled by weighting each word's probability of being chosen by its observed frequency
        - Add `types` and `tokens` properties that track the number of types (distinct words) and tokens (total word occurrences) in the histogram
        - Run `python listogram.py` to test `Listogram` class instance methods on a few small examples plus output of 10,000 calls to `sample()` method and their error from observed word frequencies
        - Run `pytest listogram_test.py` to run the [listogram unit tests] and fix any failures
    - Restructure code files and functions to be more modular and flexible

## Stretch Challenges
These challenges are more difficult and help you push your skills and understanding to the next level.
- [Page 6: Application Architecture]
    - Organize other app functions and classes based on your answers to app architecture questions
- Bonus challenges
    - Improve the speed of accessing word frequencies in the `Listogram` class by storing entries in sorted order by word and searching for them in a faster way
        - An elegant way to do this is to make a `SortedListogram` class that inherits from the `Listogram` class and overrides some instance methods to specialize their behavior to insert and search for entries in sorted order
    - Want to make the `Listogram` class more convenient to use? Add methods so that it can be used as an [iterable container], such as in a `for` loop like this:
        ```
        fish_text = 'one fish two fish red fish blue fish'
        histogram = Listogram(fish_text.split())
        for word in histogram:
            freq = histogram.frequency(word)
            print('{} occurs {} times'.format(word, freq))
        ```


[code review rubric]: http://make.sc/code-review-rubric
[how OOP actually works]: https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1n_BKzZ3Dhn3NoKpv05TlS2M-P0zNJRE2jJvnTxiD5bA/preview
[video of lecture on how OOP actually works]: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MhJnYdAb7q4
[Page 6: Application Architecture]: https://www.makeschool.com/academy/tutorial/tweet-generator-data-structures-probability-with-python/application-architecture
[coupling]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Coupling_(computer_programming)
[iterable container]: https://docs.python.org/3/library/stdtypes.html#typeiter

[dictogram starter code]: https://github.com/Make-School-Courses/CS-1.2-Intro-Data-Structures/blob/master/Code/dictogram.py
[dictogram unit tests]: https://github.com/Make-School-Courses/CS-1.2-Intro-Data-Structures/blob/master/Code/dictogram_test.py
[listogram starter code]: https://github.com/Make-School-Courses/CS-1.2-Intro-Data-Structures/blob/master/Code/listogram.py
[listogram unit tests]: https://github.com/Make-School-Courses/CS-1.2-Intro-Data-Structures/blob/master/Code/listogram_test.py
