Lessons/Sentences.md, before:

# Generating Sentences

## Activities
- Compare histogram functions to `Dictogram` and `Listogram` class instance methods
- Discuss advantages of classes and object-oriented programming (OOP)
- Lecture and discussion on building Markov chains and performing random walks

## Objectives
After completing this class session and the associated tutorial challenges, students will be able to ...
- Build Markov chains based on observed frequency of adjacent words in text
- Generate sentences by sampling words by performing random walks on Markov chain

## Challenges
These challenges are the baseline required to complete the project and course.
Be sure to complete these before next class session and before starting on the stretch challenges below.
- [Page 7: Generating Sentences]
    - Build a Markov chain by analyzing frequency of adjacent words in text
    - Sample a random word from a state histogram in a Markov chain
    - Generate a sentence by performing a random walk on Markov chain

## Stretch Challenges
These challenges are more difficult and help you push your skills and understanding to the next level.
- [Page 7: Generating Sentences]
    - Implement `MarkovChain` class to store states of word frequency histograms
        - Add methods for constructing state histograms and sampling words
    - Handle beginning and end of sentences with special start and stop tokens

## Resources
- Read Victor Powell's [visual explanation of Markov chains] and play with the interactive animated diagrams
- Read Alex Dejeu's [article on how Markov chains work][Dejeu Markov article], with great examples specific to this project (only the "Intro To Markov Models" section; we'll cover the topics in the "Further Markov Model Topics" section later in the course)

[Page 7: Generating Sentences]: https://www.makeschool.com/academy/tutorial/tweet-generator-data-structures-probability-with-python/generating-sentences-with-markov-chains
[visual explanation of Markov chains]: http://setosa.io/blog/2014/07/26/markov-chains/
[Dejeu Markov article]: https://hackernoon.com/from-what-is-a-markov-model-to-here-is-how-markov-models-work-1ac5f4629b71

Commit message:

Add link to video of lecture on generating sentences with Markov chains

Lessons/Sentences.md, after:

# Generating Sentences

## Activities
- Compare histogram functions to `Dictogram` and `Listogram` class instance methods
- Discuss advantages of classes and object-oriented programming (OOP)
- Lecture and discussion on building Markov chains and performing random walks
    - Watch [video of lecture on generating sentences with Markov chains]

## Objectives
After completing this class session and the associated tutorial challenges, students will be able to ...
- Build Markov chains based on observed frequency of adjacent words in text
- Generate sentences by sampling words by performing random walks on Markov chain

## Challenges
These challenges are the baseline required to complete the project and course.
Be sure to complete these before next class session and before starting on the stretch challenges below.
- [Page 7: Generating Sentences]
    - Build a Markov chain by analyzing frequency of adjacent words in text
    - Sample a random word from a state histogram in a Markov chain
    - Generate a sentence by performing a random walk on Markov chain

## Stretch Challenges
These challenges are more difficult and help you push your skills and understanding to the next level.
- [Page 7: Generating Sentences]
    - Implement `MarkovChain` class to store states of word frequency histograms
        - Add methods for constructing state histograms and sampling words
    - Handle beginning and end of sentences with special start and stop tokens

## Resources
- Read Victor Powell's [visual explanation of Markov chains] and play with the interactive animated diagrams
- Read Alex Dejeu's [article on how Markov chains work][Dejeu Markov article], with great examples specific to this project (only the "Intro To Markov Models" section; we'll cover the topics in the "Further Markov Model Topics" section later in the course)

[video of lecture on generating sentences with Markov chains]: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NcmSugXmB-g
[Page 7: Generating Sentences]: https://www.makeschool.com/academy/tutorial/tweet-generator-data-structures-probability-with-python/generating-sentences-with-markov-chains
[visual explanation of Markov chains]: http://setosa.io/blog/2014/07/26/markov-chains/
[Dejeu Markov article]: https://hackernoon.com/from-what-is-a-markov-model-to-here-is-how-markov-models-work-1ac5f4629b71
